Readthedocs (#534)
ucb-bar/hammer: doc/Hammer-Use/Hooks.rst

Extending Hammer with Hooks
=======================================

> Hammer's built-in APIs does not promise to be able to produce DRC & LVS clean, good QoR designs for complex designs in advanced technology nodes. Furthermore, Hammer is flexible and encourages power users to experiment with CAD tool commands to tweak aspects of their designs. To extend Hammer, you need to write *hooks*.

Author: ```suggestion
It is unlikely that using the default Hammer APIs alone will produce DRC- and LVS-clean designs with good QoR in advanced technology nodes if the design is sufficiently complex.
To solve that, Hammer is extensible using *hooks*.
These hooks also afford power users additional flexibility to experiment with CAD tool commands to tweak aspects of their designs.
```

Hooks can live in a Python file inside the design root so that it is available to the class that needs to extend the default ``CLIDriver``. An example of some skeletons of hooks are found in `Chipyard <https://github.com/ucb-bar/chipyard/blob/master/vlsi/example-vlsi>`__.

Including Hooks
----------------

Hooks modify the flow using a few ``HammerTool`` methods, such as:
* ``make_replacement_hook``: this swaps out an existing step with the hook
* ``make_pre_insertion_hook``: this inserts the desired hook before a step or another hook
* ``make_post_insertion_hook``: this inserts the desired hook step a step or another hook
* ``make_removal_hook``: this just removes the given step/hook from the flow

All of these are found in the Chipyard example above.

A list of these hooks must be provided in an implementation of method such as ``get_extra_par_hooks`` in the command-line driver. This new file becomes the entry point into Hammer, overriding the default ``hammer-vlsi`` executable.

Plugin-Provided Hooks
---------------------

> Hooks can also be provided by the technology or tool plugin. The linked Chipyard example includes an example of how the ASAP7 technology plugin injects a hook to scale down a GDS post-P&R.

Author: ```suggestion
Hooks can also be provided by the technology or tool plugin. The linked Chipyard example includes an example of how the ASAP7 technology plugin injects a hook to scale down a GDS post-place-and-route.
```
